Okay, let's practice vowels.
Do you remember the vowels?
Should I write them down?
Yeah.
My mother was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.
I provide for her economically, and I'm her caregiver.
This involves preparing her meals,
making sure she takes her medication,
and making conversation so she keeps her mind active.
All of it can be very overwhelming.
My daughter was born premature at six months.
The areas of the brain that allow her to walk
and to speak well, the motor areas were damaged.
When my wife passed away, it was even harder for me.
Not a lot of people know all the work that's involved.
It takes me around two to three hours for us
to get ready for the meetings or the ministry.
Looking after someone 24-7 is extremely
exhausting for the caregiver.
On some days I go to bed, and even though I'm exhausted,
I can't fall asleep, so it can be very easy
for frustration to build up.
And then you just snap.
Then you judge yourself really harshly for it after.
And you think, I'm awful.
I'm an awful person.
I've learned that being a caregiver also means
taking care of yourself first, because you need to be
in a good place, both spiritually and physically.
I try to go for walks so that I can have
a little bit more strength.
To take care of my relationship with Jehovah,
my personal study is very important.
I usually do it at night when everything's calm in the house,
and it's not necessary for me to be by her side.
As caregivers, we need to take care of our health.
So what I try to do is have a specific bedtime
and put aside my electronic devices at a certain time.
It's the simple things that sometimes you forget to do.
And as a caregiver, you tend to put yourself last.
So when I'm tired out, I ask my sister
to help me take care of my mom.
And then I try to do something to enjoy myself.
If I'm able to take care of my mom's needs by myself
with what I've got, then that's what I do.
But if my close family can't provide the additional help
that we need, it's really important for me
as a caregiver to be able to say, I'm tired.
I need help.
I used to feel too embarrassed to ask for help.
But then I realized that was actually preventing blessings
that Jehovah wanted to give us.
For example, the other day, we were writing letters
and I could see the love that the brothers and sisters
have for my daughter.
When we go out and service, sometimes they say,
take a break, Damien.
We'll take her today.
I feel comforted when the brothers and sisters
are so interested in us.
Recently, a sister came by the house.
I invited her to come in and she said,
no, I'm just stopping by.
I was thinking of you both and I wanted to bring you this.
It was a bag with some bread.
You'd think it's just bread.
No, it's not just bread.
It's a sister's time, her money.
But mostly, it's her interest, her love.
For me, the benefit of having a close friend
is being able to say to them, hey, this is how I feel.
I want to cry.
I want to run.
Sometimes my thoughts can overwhelm me.
Second Corinthians, one, three and four, says,
praise be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
the Father of tender mercies, and the God of all comfort.
Who comforts us in all our trials
so that we may be able to comfort others in any sort of trial
with the comfort that we receive from God?
Jehovah comforts me, whether it's through the Scriptures
or through the congregation.
And I can then offer that comfort to my daughter.
If my wife were here, we'd share this burden together.
But now I realize that I do share the burden with Jehovah.
This is how Jehovah has helped me to find balance
and to be able to take care of us both.
Time and time again when we face difficult situations.
The only one who really knows what's in my heart is Jehovah.
And every single time without fail,
he provides a solution.